Readme.md, before:

Libsass
=======

by Aaron Leung ([@akhleung]) and Hampton Catlin ([@hcatlin])

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/sass/libsass.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/sass/libsass) [![Bountysource](https://www.bountysource.com/badge/tracker?tracker_id=283068)](https://www.bountysource.com/trackers/283068-libsass?utm_source=283068&utm_medium=shield&utm_campaign=TRACKER_BADGE)

https://github.com/sass/libsass

Libsass is just a library, but if you want to RUN libsass,
then go to https://github.com/sass/sassc or
https://github.com/sass/ruby-libsass or
[find your local implementer](https://github.com/sass/libsass/wiki/Implementations).

About
-----

Libsass is a C/C++ port of the Sass CSS precompiler. The original version was written in Ruby, but this version is meant for efficiency and portability.

This library strives to be light, simple, and easy to build and integrate with a variety of platforms and languages.

Developing
----------

As you may have noticed, the libsass repo itself has
no executables and no tests. Oh noes! How can you develop???

Well, luckily, SassC is the official binary wrapper for
libsass and is *always* kept in sync. SassC uses a git submodule
to include libsass. When developing libsass, its best to actually
check out SassC and develop in that directory with the SassC spec
and tests there.

We even run Travis tests for SassC!

Tests
-------

Since libsass is a pure library, tests are run through the [SassSpec](https://github.com/sass/sass-spec) project using the [SassC](http://github.com/sass/sassc) driver.

To run tests against libsass while developing, you can run `./script/spec`. This will clone SassC and Sass-Spec under the project folder and then run the Sass-Spec test suite. You may want to update the clones to ensure you have the latest version.

Usage
-----

While libsass is primarily implemented in C++, it provides a simple
C interface that is defined in [sass_interface.h]. Its usage is pretty
straight forward.

First, you create a sass context struct. We use these objects to define
different execution parameters for the library. There are three
different context types.

```c
sass_context();        // string-in-string-out compilation
sass_file_context();   // file-based compilation
sass_folder_context(); // full-folder multi-file
```

Each of the contexts have slightly different behavior and are
implemented seperately. This does add extra work to implementing
a wrapper library, but we felt that a mixed-use context object
provides for too much implicit logic. What if you set "input_string"
AND "input_file"... what do we do? This would introduce bugs into
wrapper libraries that would be difficult to debug.

We anticipate that most adapters in most languages will define
their own logic for how to separate these use cases based on the
language. For instance, the original Ruby interface has a combined
interface, but is backed by three different processes.

To generate a context, use one of the following methods.

```c
sass_new_context();
sass_new_file_context();
sass_new_folder_context();
```

Again, please see the [sass_interface.h] for more information.

And, to get even more information, then please see the implementations
in SassC and SassC-Ruby.

About Sass
----------

Sass is a CSS pre-processor language to add on exciting, new,
awesome features to CSS. Sass was the first language of its kind
and by far the most mature and up to date codebase.

Sass was originally created by the co-creator of this library,
Hampton Catlin ([@hcatlin]). The extension and continuing evolution
of the language has all been the result of years of work by Natalie
Weizenbaum ([@nex3]) and Chris Eppstein ([@chriseppstein]).

For more information about Sass itself, please visit http://sass-lang.com

Contribution Agreement
----------------------

Any contribution to the project are seen as copyright assigned to Hampton Catlin, a
human on the planet earth. Your contribution warrants that you have the right to
assign copyright on your work. The intention here is to ensure that the project
remains totally free (liberal, like).

Our MIT license is designed to be as simple, and liberal as possible.

[@hcatlin]: https://github.com/hcatlin
[@akhleung]: https://github.com/akhleung
[@chriseppstein]: https://github.com/chriseppstein
[@nex3]: https://github.com/nex3

[sass_interface.h]: sass_interface.h

Commit message:

merging in sass2scss as an official part of libsass

Readme.md, after:

Libsass
=======

by Aaron Leung ([@akhleung]) and Hampton Catlin ([@hcatlin])

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/sass/libsass.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/sass/libsass) [![Bountysource](https://www.bountysource.com/badge/tracker?tracker_id=283068)](https://www.bountysource.com/trackers/283068-libsass?utm_source=283068&utm_medium=shield&utm_campaign=TRACKER_BADGE)

https://github.com/sass/libsass

Libsass is just a library, but if you want to RUN libsass,
then go to https://github.com/sass/sassc or
https://github.com/sass/ruby-libsass or
[find your local implementer](https://github.com/sass/libsass/wiki/Implementations).

About
-----

Libsass is a C/C++ port of the Sass CSS precompiler. The original version was written in Ruby, but this version is meant for efficiency and portability.

This library strives to be light, simple, and easy to build and integrate with a variety of platforms and languages.

Developing
----------

As you may have noticed, the libsass repo itself has
no executables and no tests. Oh noes! How can you develop???

Well, luckily, SassC is the official binary wrapper for
libsass and is *always* kept in sync. SassC uses a git submodule
to include libsass. When developing libsass, its best to actually
check out SassC and develop in that directory with the SassC spec
and tests there.

We even run Travis tests for SassC!

Tests
-------

Since libsass is a pure library, tests are run through the [SassSpec](https://github.com/sass/sass-spec) project using the [SassC](http://github.com/sass/sassc) driver.

To run tests against libsass while developing, you can run `./script/spec`. This will clone SassC and Sass-Spec under the project folder and then run the Sass-Spec test suite. You may want to update the clones to ensure you have the latest version.

Usage
-----

While libsass is primarily implemented in C++, it provides a simple
C interface that is defined in [sass_interface.h]. Its usage is pretty
straight forward.

First, you create a sass context struct. We use these objects to define
different execution parameters for the library. There are three
different context types.

```c
sass_context();        // string-in-string-out compilation
sass_file_context();   // file-based compilation
sass_folder_context(); // full-folder multi-file
```

Each of the contexts have slightly different behavior and are
implemented seperately. This does add extra work to implementing
a wrapper library, but we felt that a mixed-use context object
provides for too much implicit logic. What if you set "input_string"
AND "input_file"... what do we do? This would introduce bugs into
wrapper libraries that would be difficult to debug.

We anticipate that most adapters in most languages will define
their own logic for how to separate these use cases based on the
language. For instance, the original Ruby interface has a combined
interface, but is backed by three different processes.

To generate a context, use one of the following methods.

```c
sass_new_context();
sass_new_file_context();
sass_new_folder_context();
```

Again, please see the [sass_interface.h] for more information.

And, to get even more information, then please see the implementations
in SassC and SassC-Ruby.

About Sass
----------

Sass is a CSS pre-processor language to add on exciting, new,
awesome features to CSS. Sass was the first language of its kind
and by far the most mature and up to date codebase.

Sass was originally created by the co-creator of this library,
Hampton Catlin ([@hcatlin]). The extension and continuing evolution
of the language has all been the result of years of work by Natalie
Weizenbaum ([@nex3]) and Chris Eppstein ([@chriseppstein]).

For more information about Sass itself, please visit http://sass-lang.com

Contribution Agreement
----------------------

Any contribution to the project are seen as copyright assigned to Hampton Catlin, a
human on the planet earth. Your contribution warrants that you have the right to
assign copyright on your work. The intention here is to ensure that the project
remains totally free (liberal, like).

Our MIT license is designed to be as simple, and liberal as possible.

[@hcatlin]: https://github.com/hcatlin
[@akhleung]: https://github.com/akhleung
[@chriseppstein]: https://github.com/chriseppstein
[@nex3]: https://github.com/nex3

Sass2CSS is was originally written by Marcel Greeter [@mgreeter]
and allowed to be merged into the project.

[sass_interface.h]: sass_interface.h
